README.md, before:

# Laravel Mail Template Engine

The Laravel Mail Template Engine makes it possible to create mail templates for your transactional mails. 
These mail templates can hold content and recipient variables which can be filled when triggering the mail. 

This package works together with our [Laravel Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor) that provides a UI to let content managers edit translations.

## How it works
The packages combines 3 different sets of data to send a transactional mail. 
1. Firstly there is the Mail class: here you define a name, content variables and recipient variables.
2. Next up you store your mail templates in your database, you can do this in Nova using [Laravel Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor). Or you write your own interface to save the templates.
3. Finally, you call the mail class and fill in its variables (content and recipient). 
At this moment the engine will look for all templates using this class, starts filling them with the provided variables and send them to the selected recipients.
 
## Installation

1. Install using composer:
```
composer require statikbe/laravel-mail-template-engine
```

2. Publish the mail template migration and config
```
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=mail-template-engine
```

3. Run the mail template migration
```
php artisan migrate
```

## How to use

### The mail class
This class will decide what content variables are available in your mail template and will be used to decide when a mail is send. 

After creating a Mail class, add them to the config `mail-template-engine.php` mails.

An example of a Mail class can be found at `src/Mails/ResetPassword.php`.
```php
<?php

namespace Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\Mails;

use Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\AbstractMail;

class ResetPassword extends AbstractMail
{
    public static function name(){
        return __('ResetPasswordTemplate');
    }

    public static function getContentVariables(){
        return [
            'url' => __('Reset password URL'),
        ];
    }

    public static function getRecipientVariables(){
        return [
            'user' => __('User')
        ];
    }
}
```

### The Mail Templates
Mail templates are stored in the database. This uses the model `Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\MailTemplate` and can be created like any other model. 
A mail template can be localized, we use Spatie's translatable package for this to work. More information can be found on their page: [Laravel Translatable](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-translatable).

//TODO: table with all available fields

If your application is using Nova you can use [Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor): a tool editing and creating mail templates.
 
### Calling the mail class 
In order to send mails you fill and send Mail classes. The filling references to providing the correct data for the variables of the class. 
The class will now look for any mail template in the database using this Mail class, build and send the mail.  

An example:
```php
use Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\Mails\ResetPassword;

$contentVars = [
    'nl' => [
        'url' => $verificationUrl,
    ],
];
$recipientVars = [
    'user' => [
        'mail' => $user->email,
        'locale' => 'en',
    ],
];

$mail = new ResetPassword();
$mail->sendMail($contentVars, $recipientVars);
```

## Configuration

You can publish the configuration by running this command:
```
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=mail-template-engine
```

The following configuration fields are available:

TODO document configuration


## License
The MIT License (MIT). Please see [license file](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Updated default design, added AbstractBaseMail and baseMail is now configurable

README.md, after:

# Laravel Mail Template Engine

The Laravel Mail Template Engine makes it possible to create mail templates for your transactional mails. 
These mail templates can hold content and recipient variables which can be filled when triggering the mail. 

This package works together with our [Laravel Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor) that provides a UI to let content managers edit translations.

## How it works
The packages combines 3 different sets of data to send a transactional mail. 
1. Firstly there is the Mail class: here you define a name, content variables and recipient variables.
2. Next up you store your mail templates in your database, you can do this in Nova using [Laravel Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor). Or you write your own interface to save the templates.
3. Finally, you call the mail class and fill in its variables (content and recipient). 
At this moment the engine will look for all templates using this class, starts filling them with the provided variables and send them to the selected recipients.
 
## Installation

1. Install using composer:
```
composer require statikbe/laravel-mail-template-engine
```

2. Publish the mail template migration and config
```
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=mail-template-engine
```

3. Run the mail template migration
```
php artisan migrate
```

## How to use

### The mail class
This class will decide what content variables are available in your mail template and will be used to decide when a mail is send. 

After creating a Mail class, add them to the config `mail-template-engine.php` mails.

An example of a Mail class can be found at `src/Mails/ResetPassword.php`.
```php
<?php

namespace Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\Mails;

use Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\AbstractMail;

class ResetPassword extends AbstractMail
{
    public static function name(){
        return __('ResetPasswordTemplate');
    }

    public static function getContentVariables(){
        return [
            'url' => __('Reset password URL'),
        ];
    }

    public static function getRecipientVariables(){
        return [
            'user' => __('User')
        ];
    }
}
```

### The Mail Templates
Mail templates are stored in the database. This uses the model `Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\MailTemplate` and can be created like any other model. 
A mail template can be localized, we use Spatie's translatable package for this to work. More information can be found on their page: [Laravel Translatable](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-translatable).

//TODO: table with all available fields

If your application is using Nova you can use [Nova Mail Editor](https://github.com/statikbe/laravel-nova-mail-editor): a tool editing and creating mail templates.
 
### Calling the mail class 
In order to send mails you fill and send Mail classes. The filling references to providing the correct data for the variables of the class. 
The class will now look for any mail template in the database using this Mail class, build and send the mail.  

An example:
```php
use Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\Mails\ResetPassword;

$contentVars = [
    'nl' => [
        'url' => $verificationUrl,
    ],
];
$recipientVars = [
    'user' => [
        'mail' => $user->email,
        'locale' => 'en',
    ],
];

$mail = new ResetPassword();
$mail->sendMail($contentVars, $recipientVars);
```

## Styling
The default design provided by the package comes from [here](https://github.com/leemunroe/responsive-html-email-template).
You can publish the views and customize all you want! 
```
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Statikbe\LaravelMailEditor\MailEditorServiceProvider" --tag=views
```
You can provide your own designs by adding them to the `designs` array in the config. Designs are view directories where you store the views for your render engines, F.E. the default HTML engine expects a view called `html.blade.php`. 

## Configuration

You can publish the configuration by running this command:
```
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=mail-template-engine
```

The following configuration fields are available:

TODO document configuration


## License
The MIT License (MIT). Please see [license file](LICENSE.md) for more information.
